CMake is a tool that describes how your C++ project should be built. CMake creates the instruction for building the project.

Commands generated by cmake are managed by build systems.

We will have a file called CMakeLists.txt is basically the instruction sheet for cmake.

CMake supports multiple build systems, a generator is simply the type of build system that CMake will generate.

cmake -G Ninja: Generate Ninja build files.

cmake -S <dir>: dir is the project in subject.

cmake -B <dir> the directory where we wish to keep our build files.

cmake --build build: Actually build the project.

cmake -G Ninja -B build

There are different build configuration debug, Release et we use for different purpose.

Single-config: Choose the build type when configuring cmake.
Command is: cmake -S . -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug

Multi-config: Several configuration available in the same build directory then while building we choose the one when building.
Coomand is: cmake --build build --comfig Debug.

To run the executable: .\build\Debug\1.exe

project() informs CMake that what follows is the description of a distinct software project of a given name. When CMake sees the project() command it performs various checks to ensure the environment is suitable for building software; such as checking for compilers and other build tooling, and discovering properties like the endianness of the host and target machines.

add_executable() command creates a target. In CMake lingo, a target is a name the developer gives to a collection of properties.Some examples of properties a target might want to keep track of are: The artifact kind (executable, library, header collection, etc), Source files, Include directories, Output name of an executable or library, Dependencies, Compiler and linker flags.

add_library() command reate a library target named MathFunctions.

CMake needs a way to describe a group of header files belonging to a target. That's what FILE_SET provides.

BASE_DIRS include. basically tells CMake: This is the directory from which these headers should be discoverable.

target_link_libraries command link the target to the lobraries it uses.

PRIVATE: Only the target needs the library.

INTERFACE: The target itself doesn't need the library, but consumers of the target do.

PUBLIC: Target and consumers needs library.

We can write link librares command before add library, CMake doesn't execute the compiler line by line, it describes a project.

add_subdirectory() tells CMake to go into this subdirectory and process the CMakeLists.txt file there too.

project() simply gives overall CMake project a name.

target_include_directories() helps the compiler to find the header file. When compiling this target, search these directories for header files. For the target, headers/ is an include directory, and make this include path available to consumers of targets too.